The dataset here under is derived from a telemarketing experience wherein a bank used telephone calls in a bid to convince clients to open a term deposit account. It means investing with the bank a certain amount of money for a certain period of time and the predetermined interest rate is paid at the end of the agreed time. Probably, the bank has a large customer base, thus, to identify potential subscribers through advertising can have a strong positive impact on the results of advertising and the profitability of the campaign.
Another issue is the problem of the effective distribution of marketing resources in the bank. Communicating with every customer is financially expensive and time-consuming, while its effectiveness is often negligible. Furthermore, organizations can result in ineffective targeting also turning customers into dissatisfied customers harming the banks image. That is why the bank should have the ability to define the customers who are willing to take a term deposit.
Objective
Its main purpose is to create a model for analyzing the data on customers’ characteristics to determine the probability of their term deposit subscription. This model will be used to:
Prioritize customer outreach: Concentrate on communicating directly with that audience that has high likelihood of subscribing, to make the most of the campaign.
Optimize resource allocation: Determine marketing efficiency and improve the targeting of marketing resources by paying attention to the optimal customer niches.
Improve customer experience: Eliminate the possibility of interacting with clients as they aren’t willing to become clients, thus making their banking experience more valuable.
Gain insights into customer behavior: Understand the reasons behind the choice of subscriptions, which will be crucial for the further prediction of customer behavior.
Using the logistic regression model, the bank wants to establish a reliable tool that would contribute to the successful promotion of its term deposits and, consequently, provide increased profit, better satisfaction of the clients, and the efficient utilization of resources.
